[Studios] Form update (#942)
seqeralabs/docs: platform-cloud/docs/studios/add-studio-git-repo.md

tags: [studio-git, git-repository, session, studios]
---

:::info[**Prerequisites**]
You will need the following to get started:

- **Maintain** role permissions (minimum)
- A compute environment with sufficient resources (scale based on data volume)
- [Data Explorer](../data/data-explorer) enabled
- Git credentials configured in your workspace
- A Git repository containing a `seqera` folder
:::

**Limitations**

- Compute environments are workspace-specific and cannot be defined in Git repositories. Select the compute environment when adding a Studio.
- Data links cannot be referenced in Git repositories. Select data links when adding a Studio.
- Git repositories with multiple Studio configurations are not supported. However, it is possible to use a Git repository with multiple branches and different configurations in each branch.

### Create the required configuration files 

**.seqera/studio-config.yaml configuration file**

Create a `.seqera/studio-config.yaml` file in the the `.seqera/ ` directory in your repo. The only required field is `session.template.kind`. All other fields are optional.

```yaml
schemaVersion: "0.0.1"
kind: "studio-config"
session:

>     name: "studio-name"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    name: "studio-name" # Must be unique to a workspace. If undefined, an auto-generated name is used
```

>     description: "desc"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    description: "desc" # Short description of what the Studio is for
```

    template:
        kind: "registry"|"dockerfile"|"none"
        registry: "cr.seqera.io/image:latest"    # Ignored for `dockerfile` nad `none`
        dockerfile: "Dockerfile"                 # Ignored for `registry` and `none`
    clone:
        enabled: true                            # Defaults to `true`
        path: "/workspace"                       # Defaults to `/workspace`. If you want to clone to `/workspace/repository` then you need to specify this.
    dependencies:

>         condaEnvironmentFile: "environment.yaml" # Ignored for `dockerfile`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        condaEnvironmentFile: "environment.yaml" # Define additional libraries (and versions). Ignored for `dockerfile`
```

    computeRequirements:
        awsBatch: # Ignored for non-batch CE

>             cpu: 2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            cpu: 2 # Number of CPUs to use. Defaults to 2
```

        -   name: "var1"
            value: "value1"
        -   name: "var2"
            value: "value2"
    management:
        lifespanHours: 1 # Ignored if workspace lifespan is set
        isPrivate: false # Defaults to false
```

The schema can define a Dockerfile, which has to be inside the `.seqera` folder. The following limitations apply:

- You need to configure a target repository for the registry using the `TOWER_DATA_STUDIO_WAVE_CUSTOM_IMAGE_REGISTRY` and `TOWER_DATA_STUDIO_WAVE_CUSTOM_IMAGE_REPOSITORY` environment variables.
- Each workspace needs to have credentials available in the workspace to push to the defined registry.
- The only supported registry and compute environment combination for a fully private Dockerfile-based Studio is ECR and AWS.

Dockerfile-based Studios cannot be pushed to the Wave community registry. If no registry configuration is specified, it defaults to the Wave default.

### Add a Studio

You can add a Studio by referencing a Git repository containing Studio configuration files. You can also configure the following fields:

- **Repository URL**: Enter the full URL to your Git repository (e.g., `https://github.com/your-org/your-repo`)

> - **Revision**: Select a branch, tag, or commit from the dropdown. The dropdown is dynamically populated based on the repository URL. If no revision is selected, the main or master branch is used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Revision**: Select a branch, tag, or commit from the dropdown. The dropdown is dynamically populated based on the repository URL. If no revision is selected, the default branch is used.
```

- **Resource labels**: Any [resource label](../labels/overview) already defined for the compute environment is added by default. Additional custom resource labels can be added or removed as needed.

> - **Environment variable**: Environment variables for the session. All variables from the selected compute environment are automatically inherited and displayed. Additional session-specific variables can be added. Session-level variables take precedence — to override an inherited variable, define the same key with a different value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Environment variables**: Environment variables for the session. All variables from the selected compute environment are automatically inherited and displayed. Additional session-specific variables can be added. Session-level variables take precedence — to override an inherited variable, define the same key with a different value.
```

        path: "/workspace"                       # Defaults to `/workspace`. If you want to clone to `/workspace/repository` then you need to specify this
    dependencies:
        condaEnvironmentFile: "environment.yaml" # Define additional libraries (and versions). Ignored for `dockerfile`
    computeRequirements:
        awsBatch:                                # Ignored for non-AWS batch CE
            cpu: 2                               # Number of CPUs to use. Defaults to 2
            gpu: 0                               # Number of GPUs to use (if the CE supports GPUs). Defaults to 0
            memory: 8192                         # Memory allocated in MiB. Defaults to 8192.
    environmentVariables:                        # Ordered sequence of elements that are objects (or mappings) of key-value pairs
        -   name: "var1"
            value: "value1"
        -   name: "var2"
            value: "value2"
    management:                                  # Session management settings
        lifespanHours: 1                         # Ignored if workspace lifespan is set
        isPrivate: false                         # Defaults to `false`
```

> The schema can reference a `Dockerfile`, located inside the `.seqera` folder. The following limitations apply:

Reviewer 2: Few more limitations are pointed out by this document: https://github.com/seqeralabs/platform/blob/master/docs/techspec/studios/git/dockerfile_image_build.md
The most relevant could be those regarding file size limits. Also, we could mention that platform will respect `.dockerignore` file, and that It will only copy files from inside the `.seqera ` folder

 :::note
 When the **Git URL** or **Revision** fields are changed, form field values dynamically update.
 :::

### Mount data

Mount data to make them accessible in your session:

1. Select **Mount data** to open the data selection modal.
1. Choose the data to mount.
1. Select **Mount data** to confirm.

Once the Studio session is running, mounted data are accessible at `/workspace/data/<DATA_LINK_NAME>` using the [Fusion file system](https://docs.seqera.io/fusion). Data doesn't need to match the compute environment region, though cross-region data transfer (ingress and egress) may increase costs.

Sessions have read-only access to mounted data by default. Enable write permissions by adding AWS S3 buckets as **Allowed S3 Buckets** in your compute environment configuration.

Files uploaded to a mounted bucket during an active session may not be immediately available within that session. [More information](../troubleshooting_and_faqs/studios_troubleshooting#running-session-does-not-show-new-data-in-object-storage).

### Repository cloning

> When a Studio session starts from a Git repository, the repository contents are cloned into the session, using the same commit that was selected, or resolved, when the Studio was first created. For example, repository `https://github.com/seqeralabs/studio-templates.git` clones to `/workspace/studio-templates/` with `README.md` at `/workspace/studio-templates/README.md`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When a Studio session starts from a Git repository, the repository contents are cloned into the session, using the same commit that was selected, or resolved, when the Studio was first created. For example, repository `https://github.com/seqeralabs/studio-templates.git` clones to `/workspace/` with `README.md` at `/workspace/README.md`.
```

Also the destination could be specified by the `studio-config.yaml` by `session.clone.path`

---
title: "Import from Git repository"
description: "Add a Studio in Platform."
date created: "2025-09-04"
last updated: "2025-11-14"
tags: [studio-git, git-repository, session, studios, git, version-control]
---

:::info[**Prerequisites**]
You will need the following to get started:

> - **Maintain** role permissions (minimum)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Maintain** role permissions or above
```

- A compute environment with sufficient resources (scale based on data volume)
- [Data Explorer](../data/data-explorer) enabled
- Git credentials configured in your workspace
- A Git repository containing a `.seqera` folder
:::

**Limitations**

- Compute environments are platform-specific and cannot be defined in external Git repositories. Select the compute environment when adding a Studio.
- Data-links currently cannot be referenced in Git repositories. Define data-links when adding a Studio.
- Git repositories with multiple Studio configurations are not supported. However, it is possible to use a Git repository with multiple branches and a single configuration per branch.

### Create the required configuration files 

**.seqera/studio-config.yaml configuration file**

> Create a `.seqera/studio-config.yaml` file in the `.seqera/ ` directory of your repository. The only required field is `session.template.kind`. All other fields are optional.

Reviewer 2: It's not true, there are few required fields, see: https://github.com/seqeralabs/platform/blob/master/docs/techspec/studios/git/git_integration.md#schema-studio-configyaml

```suggestion
Create a `.seqera/studio-config.yaml` file in the `.seqera/ ` directory of your repository. Your `studio-config.yaml` should contain at least `schemaVersion `, `kind` and `session.template.kind`. All other fields are optional.
```
